h1. About Typo

Being around since March 2005, Typo is (probably) the oldest blogging platform in Rails. It has a full set of feature you would expect from such an engine, powerful SEO capabilities and full themes and plugin 
extension. It is available as a gem or source tarball.

Current version is Typo 5.5 for Ruby on Rails 2.3.8. 

h2. Some useful links:

* "Download Typo 5.5 source code:":http://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=555&release_id=42715
* "*Report a bug*":http://fdv.lighthouseapp.com/projects/11171-typo-blog/overview
* "*Frequently Asked Questions*":http://wiki.github.com/fdv/typo/frequently-asked-questions
* "Official Typo blog":http://blog.typosphere.org
* "Plugin directory":http://plugins.typosphere.org
* "Typo themes":http://typogarden.org/
* "Follow us on Twitter":httpL//twitter.com/typosphere

h2. Get some help

* IRC: #typo on irc.freenode.net
* "Mailing list":http://rubyforge.org/mailman/listinfo/typo-list

h1. Installing Typo

There are various way of installing Typo, but the easiest way is certainly using our gem.

h2. 1. Prerequisites

To install Typo you need the following:

* Ruby 1.8.7 or Ruby Enterprise Edition
* Ruby On Rails 2.3.8
* A database engine, MySQL, PgSQL or SQLite3
* The Ruby connector to your favourite database engine

h2. 2. Install the gem

If you have root access, just run:

<pre>
  $ sudo gem install typo
</pre>

Otherwise:

<pre>
  $ export GEM_PATH=~/gems
  $ gem install -i ~/gems typo
</pre>

h2. 3. Install Typo

Typo comes as a highly configurable binary installer. By default, it runs with Mongrel on a random port between 4000 and 5000 and SQLite3. However we recommend using a more production ready database engine and a faster, more scalable web server. MySQL and Passenger running either on Apache or Nginx are our favourite options.

To install Typo with the default options, just run:

<pre>
  typo install /some/path
</pre>

This will install typo with SQLite3 and will spawn it to some random port. 

To chose your database engine and web server, run the following:

<pre>
  typo install /some/path web-server=my_server database=my_db db_password=password db_user=my_app db_name=my_app some/path
</pre> 

Options for _web-server_ are:

* mongrel
* mongrel_cluster
* external: Apache, Nginx, Lighttpd... with Fastcgi, mod_rails, Thin...

For more information about installing Typo from the gem, please read "our installer documentation":http://github.com/fdv/typo/raw/master/doc/Installer.txt

h2. 4. Start / stop Typo

If you're using _mongrel_ or _mongrel_cluster_ you'll be able to start / stop your Typo engine using Typo binary:

<pre>
  $ typo start some/path
</pre>

<pre>
  $ typo stop some/path
</pre>

h1. Daily use

Typo's administrative interface is available at http://your.domain.com/admin. You can use this to post articles and change Typo's configuration settings. For posting new content, you can either use this administrative web interface or a desktop blog editor like MarsEdit or Ecto. For a short list of clients which are confirmed to work please visit http://typosphere.org/wiki/DesktopClients.

Enjoy,
Your typo team

